---
title: "Why Blog?"
description: "Declaration of purpose"
date: 2025-12-15
tags:
  - blog
---


> What is the point of a web-blog? 

> Well, that's it, isn't it? 

## Why Blog

I mean, I'm sure you can go online and search, and there'll be innumerously many reasons. But personally? I have had this itch in the back of my skull for a while now, and so, here and now, I will write out this declaration of intent: 


I blog for the goals of this blog, and the goals of this blog are: 

1) proof stabilization: In math, we write proofs, and we remember them-- we do not re-derive them on the spot (and if you can, good for you, but imagine what better things you could have done...). We write proofs because they construct truth into some greater truth that use to be unknown. In life, too, there are so many unknowns, and I often find myself facing the same problems, just in different contexts. This then will be a place to write down proofs, refine them against the world, and be a place where I can point others (and my future self) to instead of re-verbalizing it on the spot, where my biology can and will fail me. Sharing is caring, and if I am to share, I want to share optimally.

2) self expression: Declaring your intent to the world is the next step, beyond simple mental self-affirmation, to consolidating your identity. The most basic "action", of the action stage, of the psychological belief -> attitude -> action causality chain. As such, each post will declare my intent to the world, so that my intent is strengthened by this world reading it. (note: yeah, this is basically all of social media, but to put it casually, social media gives me the ick)

3) stage 1 of digital identites: I have crazy ambitions in mind, yet have not acted on them. How sad. One of these ambitions is to webdev something like wikipedia, for which this would be the first step-- publishing something online. How amazing is that? To be able to work towards the ambitions you have... how great! How wonderful!


