---
title: "AJ Journal (1)"
description: "Check in with AI journal functionality"
date: 2026-01-11
tags: 
- engineering
- computer science
- AI
- technical
---

My new obsession lately has been trying to get an AI journalling app up and running. 

I've had this thought for a while now, and, after checking in with a couple online sources, it seems like no one has done it: 

using journalling to create a game like statistics system for self motivation. 

The basic pipeline would be: 

voice -> journal entry -> decompose into actions -> generalize into skills, characteristics -> update character graph

-> use actions to 'forward pass' through character graph -> update 'exp' -> update summary statistics 

With various frontend views and backend storage. 

This is generally done (Google AI studio was really helpful but laggy), but the backend setup is finicky and is causing delays. 

Additional functionality would be: 

1. 'backpropagation' to gradually modify the nodes and parameters of the characteristic graph to get values that are more accurate

2. 'merging characteristic graphs' between users to get a universally true characteristic graph. 

To my knowledge, none of this has been done before. Very fascinating stuff. Ig, MIT LICENSE, for all this information? 

Whatever the case, development is slow in the scale I want it but extremely fast on a realistic scale. A alpha test should be available soon, with its own documentation!

I'm extremely excited for this, and I hope you too! 